see
yep cool
so uh we
are going to do a couple quick things
here goal for today just circled back
with the GPU Drive BS and we're going to
see if we can fix up that
simulator so
that looks
good it's been a while since I've played
with
this let me see if I can figure this out
um
Docker I think it was on on puffer box
one
maybe uh this looks good it has GPU
drive on it
right and this box got rebooted anyway
so we're fine so um
there's a bunch of stuff here we don't
care about any of this we do care about
this demo file
so the thing that was happening that got
me stuck on this
before hold on let me fix the
stream uh the thing that happened that
got me stuck on this before was that
there's this crash in
madona uh the basically means
that you can't run sweeps the way you
normally
would oops you can't run sweeps the way
that you normally would because uh you
can't make multiple copies of the
environment it just like it crashes it
out of memories it does weird things so
what we're going to do to fix this
where's this thing called
train okay right here elos equals elos
let's
do this will run in a sub
process and now we have to add this
extra
ARG admittedly I don't like floing the
demo file but whatever you know we'll do
it for
this sub process equal
is very
gross but uh this is
cheeky that's not what I wanted to do it
all um let me
see I need to see my other code to see
how I want to do
this back in multiprocessing
[Music]
thing process multiprocessing import
process
and okay so basically what I want to do
is I want to just call this thing um
with subprocess false but now it's in a
p.
jooin where do I get the results out
come on is there not an easy way to get
the results out at the end of a process
like this it has to be
right oh I forgot I disabled the chat as
well let me fix
that just go to the stream
view yeah there we go
get output of the process function
python
on subprocess check
output is is all old
process
run join
close is there no way to get the output
of a
process this is a
q I forget that these things are always
way more obnoxious
uh then I would
think hold
[Music]
on maybe this has better
docks is it going to tell me to put it
into a queue really
yep that's so
dumb that's incredibly
okay is there a way I can do this
without making a mess of all this nice
code that I've
written we'll just do it we'll just do
it quick for
Q and then
uh if Q is not
none
yellow
okay we'll see how this goes so we have
uh We've made a subprocess option where
we just stick all this garbage into a
queue and then we get it back out of the
queue
yeah so now what we're going to do is we
will see if we can run GPU drive if I
have the thing set up correctly and if I
can start an actual hyper pram sweep
let's see what this
does and mind you I think I've made uh
I've made some substantial improvements
to our vectorization into other things
as well since uh I did this originally
200k steps per
second very nice
so GPU drives 10 mil time
steps oh they said that there was
stepanie said that there was
uh you drive they had a a wand B
somewhere
[Music]
drona
yo where's the one b
wait
where's said there's a wanie somewhere
right dependencies
report that link points to a learning
Benchmark okay this is
where check the 1B report
here okay
I don't know this
is hold
on we'll log into to the
puffer count which will go
dang so this is
not you actually can't change whoops
let's not do
that not have freaking door Dash
oh okay here you can see that this is 10
mil steps
fine let's see how fast we can do this I
bet we can just do this super
steps wait hold
on that doesn't make sense
Max
epis sweep. parameters. m.p
parameters well that's just doesn't
exist right this doesn't exist I don't
know why this is here yo Nathan what's
up I I didn't know last stream when you
said like hey check Discord for progress
I thought you were talking about like
breakout I didn't realize you'd made a
whole mockup of the uh that PVP
environment that is awesome I am
absolutely Ely down to help you with
that that is
TKS just finishing a cup up a couple
things
here mode train back
go oh no
mode swe carbs vac
free if I run this without a sweep does
it work
okay so this actually runs fine
I'm curious then
right well I have to go for the slightly
more annoying uh option here I want to
just be able to subprocess like this but
I guess I can't do that so I'm going to
have to add
um what cash back
this should
work and then I have
to man I have to return the V en as well
this okay so we're going to do back end
equal backend right and then this will
be new
ELO then this will be ven
and I'll have to
do back it's
none so now the goal is that we just
cash the
ven cannot access local variable
vcm
doesn't Somebody explain
that Unbound local
this should absolutely work because I
have right here this is this should be
in scope
right unless I have like a ve
and oh right here because you can't
assign to
it that's why
silly so we'll just do like
this so that process should not be
here initialization
finished running GPU Drive super fast
speed is very highly
variable very highly
variable but uh yeah there you go this
should be done in 20 more
seconds which means we
are what's that 20 times faster than the
baseline or whatever
Speed how's the stream
doing warming up a bit
right
[Music]
okay so that's first
experiment now it's doing the final eval
so it gets an accurate estimate
and
then we get observed value we get up
time and it
works yay
that was way easier than I thought it
was going to be honestly I'm kind of
embarrassed that I just didn't do that
to begin
with yeah this
works all right I will be right back and
then we'll see what this is accomplished
and uh hopefully we'll be able to just
leave this and I'll either edit on the
video and answer some questions or do
some other things we'll see what we uh
what we've got let me Discord real
quick see if there's an update on any of
these Sims that people have been
building
interesting this guy did some nice work
for me here
I think I'm all caught up with the
Discord
actually yeah
okay we'll leave this be here
and I'll be right
hey
Will are you
there you there you need some help with
Docs
streaming he's not even streaming where
is this
guying oh I probably shouldn't do DMS on
stream
huh there's usually nothing there but
sometimes it's like random
whatever
uh
whoops welcome as
well he'll check back in a minute I'm
sure oh I got his
Discord hold on
where's this guy can I join his like
Discord or
whatever [ __ ] no I joined it on like
some weird account I don't know where he
is he'll probably be back hey Noah
I don't know what's up my camera's been
like a little laggy
lately I think the mini ITX desktop was
a huge
mistake on the bright side it does
prevent me from downloading and uh and
playing Boulders Gate 3 so having
a limited Hardware does have some
benefits you know when you found a
company all you have to do is like hover
over uh the install button on like
League of Legends or whatever thing and
the FBI come break down your door
work okay this is good we'll leave this
for a little
bit GPU Eugene just posted my uh my link
to his slack that's funny
had no time to work on the EV right now
I have to finish bachelor's thesis
almost finished few things need to be
done to make it a bit more similar to
the original
awesome yeah likewise I haven't been
able to Dev properly because these
freaking
videos um
the new one will be done soon I'm
actually just waiting to see if this
this does anything um because I think
that I might have a couple bugs in GPU
drive and then I'm going to switch over
in a little bit to do
uh to work on the video once this is for
sure working
doesn't is there a learning progress
happening
see think I should start looking at the
end and assuming that there's something
screwy at
least
or
or I
should get this running locally
right yeah I should do that I should get
this running
locally I'll give it another minute
before I go down that rabbit
hole we can take a look at
first I'm trying to see where
um Nathan post his
n that's worth
showing oh there there is more stuff for
me to reply
to what happened
oh wait he removed the
gift
what he deleted the
graphic I hope he's uh still doing it
why' you delete the graphic man I wanted
to show it off it looks
awesome this is the Moa and it's latest
form we'll work on that in a bit but
let's look at GPU
great I think I'm GNA have to start
looking through
for silly potential error so what we'll
do
is let me get
what we're going to do is we are going
to
grab from
puffer and grab our Fork of
it I really don't know if I should have
made puffer tank a separate repo cuz
like people don't know it
exists I've been tempted to just merge
it all into puffer uh puffer Li but like
see I guess it's nice that you can just
clone it on its own because it's like a
machine setup
thing yeah I think I leave it as is I
think I did it
right so what I'm looking for here is
the this right here this setup
well I don't know if you saw this Nathan
but it popped up the other day that
um dopus after like 15 years they're
actually adding like a new big Unity
client so timing wise having an end like
that in RL is probably a pretty cool
idea you'll probably get some people
looking at
here oh I have to just type this
manually don't I
I want to pull up the local render
basically now to see what the heck is
happening with these cars
I did realize there's going to be one
mildly difficult thing um
so turn-based Ms are slightly ever so
slightly annoying in reinforcement
learning just
slightly uh and the reason for that is
that like you don't get all of the
observations and can't make all the
actions for every
agent at every time step so you have to
do masking and
stuff which is what I'm doing right here
for GPU drive so it's basically the same
thing as having a variable number of
Agents it is slightly inefficient I
think we'll still be able to make it
super fast uh but I don't know you know
we'll see how big the environment ends
up being I might even use this as an
excuse to like really make turn-based M
super good and Puffer
oh yeah I was thinking about it don't
worry puffer will make it
puffer hey Will what's
up and auto publish
them oh it's so funny that Claude wasn't
able to figure that one out well here
I'll show
oops not
Carper uh
puffer Pap I get
habo
docks bunch of stuff you can see that
there's a
make we use
Sphinx and there's some build stuff in
here there is is uh a view for local but
then really The Source here there's just
a
config that sets some stuff
up there's an index that tells you the
path it's just all
rst which doesn't render amazing on the
GitHub
ironically and then all the different
files
whoops are in here so like the landing
page is an
rst you just have banners whatever you
want in here
how do you prefer to structure your
docks the way that I have them in here
right
um I have like One landing page that has
a bunch of stuff this is like a tutorial
on everything and then I have detailed
API over
here
which technically yeah this stuff is
here do recursive autod do yeah um you
can do that for larger projects I found
it to be kind of useless to do that
because
like I mean like I honestly think you've
got a problem if you're like looking for
API
signatures um on like just the dock page
for internal stuff versus just reading
the source code
so what I do is I just have in the API
rst
I have specific classes this is like
public
API and then you can see where is
it where's
ocean yeah like specific classes and
stuff are autod doed like this but I
only expose like user level stuff to
this right if you want to know how like
some internal thing in puffer works you
open the source because like what's the
point of just having a function header
on an internal thing
online
likely the more docks your project needs
the worse your project
you want your docks to scale sublinearly
with project
size what about the build
proc brother what do you need build proc
for bash make Dosh and commit and then
it gets hosted on GitHub
so no not every time I push to Puffer
what are you nuts you have a stable 1.0
and then you have a Dev Branch you don't
just rolling release
everything right you have a stable 10 or
like a stable whatever your version is
and then when you do a new release you
update docs and
stuff because probably like your
releases are probably going to be large
enough that you got to update like the
landing page tutorials and stuff
anyways and then you know in settings
there will be default branch and then
pages in that you set up I'm sure you've
done this right I like deploying from SL
dos I like this set up that's easy to
mess up but like it won't detect it
correctly if you don't set this up every
some every so often you'll have to like
push an empty commit as well to
refresh do you have docs build every
time you tag a new version but probably
not no I dude I don't even do CI like I
hate I hate all these automated
obnoxious things where it's not just me
running the
code everything is manual but everything
is
easy that's generally how I like to do
things
back to documenting my n
ches good
luck hey Kung two
PRS okay let's go look at those real
quick we still got GPU Drive experiments
running anyways right
yep I'm assuming this is the bug
piix puffer maoko
huh it's not perform
okay I'll just take your word on this
I'm a bit confused but
okay what do I
care fair enough that ve noise package
was annoying
rip okay and
then this is what I was looking forward
to ran a carb sweep and puffer but when
I copy the hyper parameters it performs
worse than in the
sweep I got somebody reporting that as
well on the Discord
wheel
okay we'll do a little bit of
housekeeping right
God the repo hygiene is so bad I got to
really it's
okay onward and
upward if you use carbs is it gives you
repeated
samples I I want to know what M Peter
used that
was cuz that's a different problem right
CH so Peter's saying and I had a
different report of this in the Discord
earlier
today that um some environments were not
producing using the same train curves as
um The Sweep parameters
suggest I use breakout because I wanted
to test
carbs breakout should definitely
work let's um can you link me the carb
sweep that you
ran because I copied the breakout pams
and I I believe those are
good cuz I did the same thing
I could see that happening for like
Space Invaders or something there are a
few environments that are really
finicky um breakout should work unless I
introduced a bug I did didn't I merge
like a PR from that guy recently didn't
I merge
something wait I thought I merged
something to do with spaces or
that we'll do all this right now live
including GPU Drive
oh my God I literally don't remember the
freaking build
command s dist and B dist
wheel Kong do you remember how to how we
distribute this is it s dist and B dist
wheel I believe
oops I believe it's um s dis and then B
dis I believe we distribute
both you didn't bump the version though
I have to bump the version Don't
I or did you already do that
nice more attention to detail than I
would have
oh wait do I not I probably don't have
it on this machine
huh I got to go
grab they did all this tofa [ __ ] a
while
ago
wheel are Kong are we sure that we do
the
um I don't think that we're doing
the the wheel since we added the scon
stuff I got the tar G I got the tar
gzip I got the the tar file
uploaded you can let me know on that um
I'm pretty darn sure that the scon stuff
messes with things and makes it hard
okay so that's fixed now what was the
other
thing Joko oh yeah that's the one I
asked you for I'm quite excited for that
lines wait why
does why' you take Wan B entity
okay that's
fine you put a default you
put oh you just put like a full clean RL
script in for the hell of
RL or is this just like to test works
both all right that's fine
[Music]
maoko okay I'm going to warn
you I'm going to warn you that these are
trash all right I took these out of
Atari recently and I got a huge
performance boost so if if you can get
around to it at some point if you're
still doing stuff with majoko I would
highly suggest figuring out ways to get
rid of this like these trash
rappers they're real
being
conservative puffer's new to the
game yeah we're not conservative at all
with the way we're deving
stuff we move fast and break things and
then we fix them live on stream when we
screw up
oh yeah kind
of I mean you can put
in to be be honest I don't think it
makes a
difference I don't think it makes a
difference
cool
postprocess you do with puffer post
process oh you actually made the
solid PR
K very
solid and you know what I'm going to
do I should probably not show these so
I'll go over to here and I'm going to
have we gotten any replies by the way on
the competition
two replies of them not doing
anything Academia is such a joke
okay carbs is pretty good getting better
results
yeah the DNB track like they really
screwed us on that like that was
initial yeah it didn't make longer and
longer experiments but now it
I don't it doesn't do this for me this
is
weird though this could be batch
size that's
weird okay but I will look at this let
me look at this PR because this is
probably a big thing
right if carbs is going to be even
better after we merge this that's
crazy where's the
a that's a PR for carbs not
wait in my work we run a seating
function
wait can you explain what is go this is
really big actually
um It's actually kind of crazy because I
got such ridiculously good results
before this like are we just going to
solve all of
RL if this is I mean if that's as big as
a thing as you said like we go rerun 500
experiment uh sweeps on Atari and just
solve everything
yeah you assume I'm not actually brain
dead though
Kung uh let me
wait remove the samples that are in
success and failure observations what
seeding in other places can lead to
repeated examples so we need to remove
them
[Music]
here Jesus
why I see what this does but do you know
why this happens
like we set different RNG and it messes
up there like how would it make them
give me repeated
samples I'm
back no I get the reproduction I I
believe it I'm just asking do you like
do you know why this
happens like
why okay we seed which affects their
seeding but then why does that give us
repeated results
patch repeated
samples and then and carbs initially
produces random wait
repeated
how I like I I get what you're I
understand the the thing that you've
shown here I don't understand how that
happens
right
so because usually right
it happened before and it's not I mean
fair
enough I'll tell you what I'll do k
um how
about do you want to run this on box
zero real quick like run breakout on
like run five like run 500 Breakout
experiments or something on box
zero and see if we do better there as
well I just want to make sure that
there's that we actually have like
because this is a big this will affect
every single experiment in
puffer and I want to make sure that this
actually is a proper
fix and if it works there what you can
do is you can PR this to the puffer fork
in case MB just doesn't do it for a
while and then we'll sync that up when
they eventually do it um but you can
grab box zero and run Breakout by
yeah any update on carbs in w
b yeah
I Noah something really weird happened
with that
so uh I had like three or four guys on
their team including their CEO messaged
me to like set up meetings and stuff
about it
and then like I had another one of the
guys I like I was like hey whatever
happened to these like you guys never
got back to me and he said oh the team
said that you ghosted them on two
meetings which like we never set up a
meeting cuz they never
replied and then I sent them I sent them
like a nice I sent them a nice write up
on like well okay if you guys can't like
I don't know what's wrong but here's a
write up on what you guys should do and
as far as I've seen they just have not
done it
so I don't know
K all right what's uh we should have
lots of experiments in GPU Drive done by
now
yeah so
definitely we have uh issues here with
GPU drive so we're going to get the
rendering working
tab yeah this should
be nice and
okay let's go back to what we were doing
here before with GPU
drive so we
did make dhj
we already have it compiled to C++ 11
very
the funny thing with them not doing the
um not giving a native integration with
cars is it just makes puffer even more
valuable but like honestly I'd rather
have puffer be less valuable and not
have to maintain the extra 150 lines of
code in the demo file I'd rather just be
available everywhere so that I don't
have to maintain 150 lines of extra demo
code
[Music]
okay not compiled with Cuda support fair
enough
what's going on
here I just take
forever oh yeah yeah we don't want to
run that oops Yeah we don't want to run
I send uh their
lab some
stuff I don't see
cars where are all the
right massive road yeah I know something
weird that's what I figured that we'd
just be able to like look at it and
figure out what's weird with it cuz I
see a big road and I don't see cars
so hopefully the uh the GPU Drive folks
will let me know that I'm nuts
here and I uh hopefully I'm hoping that
I'll be done on this by like in the next
hour or so because I really need to edit
this video I'm going to be real mad if I
have to spend my Sunday editing this
darn video to get it out on Monday
this well it's not going to rerender the
frame
apparently okay we have some random data
right
data oh I see all the cars now
right you can see all the
yeah this has got to be it that it just
isn't resetting right
let's take a
look like if I just run
right and now the cars are all gone and
it doesn't reset
seg
fault seg
fault no se Bon
okay
done zero
zero wait
zero what the heck is
this why is this zero
here I did I screw something I think I
screwed something up
folks star this repo as well this is a
cool
project don't start don't forget to Star
the puffer but yeah this is a cool one
to
follow hey they actually added uh they
did like what puffer did they added the
star
chart a good idea
can I look for like
done worlds or
this you can see here that there are
some
cars they're moving
[Music]
around and they stop
this so it's this
right I forget you can't
copy terminal. n
num0 I'm
s. agent Mass
confused oh because I put this break
point to high
up yeah yeah yeah I put this too high
mask terminal so now we actually get to
try this Terminal
Man viam
Zero C agent MTH
thumb then me P
one okay self. controlled agent mask.
sum then one
what terminal. nand num0 time self.
controlled agent mass. suum dial1 equal
self. controlled agent mass. suum imal
one a zero
Len let's try this
guys always always render your
environment if you're debugging your
environment and you haven't rendered it
you're screwing up if you're spending
time debugging your en and you haven't
bothered rendering it you're messing up
bad look at that we have
cars we have
cars folks we have achieved liftoff
stupid whoa whoa whoa whoa
uh
and we
have want
B
carbs okay so this is our carb site from
before
we can see it was actually getting a
little better over time which is funny
because it has very little data to do
that with kind of
impressive and uh now
we're going to have to do a little more
work on this because there's something
all right I'm going to be right back
I'll let this run for a bit it's a
restroom I'll be right back and we'll go
from there it's only
why is my camera so freaking framy is
what I want to
know have I just like destroyed my CPU
rendering
videos should just be GPU encoding
anyways I don't know what's wrong
so what's wrong with the um the speed
here
dope guys let's just uh let's let's just
ignore this one okay
drive all right and let's
just let's just kill this and let's just
uh pretend that didn't happen all right
so much better
right there we
go I thought for a second I'd like
totally messed up and uh the speed was
just going to be
terrible but nope I forgot the debug
flag
good I think we just hang out for a few
minutes and wait for this to solve
everything and see if we have any bugs
left we do have a few folks on on
YouTube and twitch
cool we're going to give this a few
minutes to just do some stuff
all
right is this
thing oh yeah there we
go so
uh the question is whether this is
actually going to learn properly
okay no actually this is fine the way I
have num finished agents it should be
oscillatory V
[Music]
collisions
reward look at these
metrics
[Music]
Offroad finished agents goal
achieved hard to
say it's hard to say
definitely this is going to need more
plots can see that there are two more
here
already it's possible that these are
just crazy hyper parameters
okay this m.n num worlds thing is not
going to factor in because we're
well it's definitely
now doing something at
least what are our
um what are our settings here
260k and it varies from
302k to
500k I should get rid of this because
this is not going to be
size these are all the pams we would
want
be
so it resets
correctly are we passing rewards and
stuff let's
see let's just spot check a little
mask this function is not used we don't
need this right
live agent
mask does get
reset so you get the OBS of the agents
you're controlling hold on
confusing this is why
Vari variable numbers of Agents is just
evil in reinforcement learning it really
is just
evil it makes you do so much additional
indexing and stuff it's very error prone
not to mention it's very inefficient
because each of these indices each of
these index operations requires copying
all the
data so we have controlled agent
mask so we get a buffer containing all
the agents we
control and then we do a mask hold on
how's the mask
work how's mask work you can't be using
this then right mask
we're going to have to go look at this
as well I think unless this is magically
learned it's getting better but it's not
getting better fast enough for my
right I forget you can't train this
thing locally it's too
big so we have to let the sweep run for
a little bit I think but I can at least
I can at least do like 16 worlds or
whatever
indices this looks good to me it really
looks good to me here
then I mean I would be very surprised if
this feature were broken i' this been
very heavily
tested so
like what else can we look
for control density should be one data
density okay we have oscillatory data
density
got
[Music]
very good train through
put eval
[Music]
performance you know these performance
markers look fine to me
[Music]
off-road goal
achieved I might have to do some back of
the envelope math
here because bat size is huge
right okay so here's what we're going to
do so I have 512 environments times 64
agents I have
32,000 agents man
agents am I doing this right wait is
this even
async yeah it's not even async right
right because we can't do multiple
copies of the
environment if we just made this thing
async we'd be set wouldn't
we yeah we should just be
set I wonder if the Madrona API has that
right you should still be able to learn
something though
right basically what I'm looking at here
is we have these massive massive batch
sizes uh which are good for performance
but then
there can be
issues like because the effective
Horizon is only a few
steps they didn't even have an lstm to
begin with though and it still
worked we doing
here yeah now it's not even getting
[Music]
better I could just leave this but I'm
not confident that it'll actually
accomplish anything if I do
where the heck is train. bat size in
here why do I not see
what the hell where's my freaking batch
size parameter
tell I guess it's
not batch size dependent is
well something's definitely wrong
something is definitely
wrong do I just take their default hyper
parameters and try
them it didn't look like anything crazy
special
entropy no entropy that's very
say what do they do do for batch
size 50
there I'm going to just make sure that
we're not seeing anything good here
yeah I'm not satisfied with this the
fact that they say it's such an easy
task definitely not satisfied with this
so
we'll stop this
sweep okay and then what we'll
do we'll do mode
like and interestingly this goes down
over
on there's definitely some instability
of some type Happening Here
what happens if I'm just scaling the
reward
wrong How likely do I think that is
I mean they're still colliding and stuff
so I don't think
[Music]
so reward curves are definitely
suspicious
mhm like look what happened to
this can you see the sweet page
here welcome back
K let me
see no
workspace unless I'm invited to
this oops
yep on box zero very nice did you
remember to set it to run 500
experiments instead of 100 if you just
see like the number of experiments you
should see like a 100 or 500 or whatever
got to
check mhm
let me try I'm going to try another
experiment while
right seems 500
sounds
this I
mean do we know the episode length we
don't right
Let's
do let's do a couple
things what do we think about this
um max font
agents um
Worlds world is the only one
specified he unique
scenes SC
[Music]
then I guess we just
add episode length
they had a Max episode length somewhere
in a rapper I remember maybe we're not
doing that
maybe we're not returning stuff
correctly
buffers probably something like this
right
observations truncations rewards
right so all you do is you end up
setting
very sparse on the reward side it is
getting it though which leads me to
wonder
because you return the reward here from
the environment right
wrong carbs
Branch
rip no big
cannot see the sweet page until you
click
it wait
thing okay
that's kind of
M's underscore assign
buffers
right and this gets
called wait it gets wrapped in a
right oh I'm dumb we don't go through
this
check
ends
exceeds back
end
okay so you are returning
here we are actually doing this
correctly
quick what
[Music]
oh hey guys it's the
masking it's the freaking masking being
dum
way we're going to write this in as a
uh a solid find
bugs we do a little exorcism
we a little bit of
exorcism
a and we'll go back up to 512 world so
this isn't stupid
it oh
yeah oh yeah
and let me make sure that this makes
sense the thing that I just did I should
probably explain the bug because this is
the common
gotcha
so yeah I'll just explain it
um
when you have an
environment where there are variable
number of
Agents you have to mask the dead agents
out of the observation right cuz you
want to train on dead agents that's
training on padding that's bad and the
way that you know when an agent dies is
that you get a done signal it says done
equals true but for a lot of
environments right you need the reward
on the step that it dies because it
could be like reward is 0000 Z and then
it can be removed from the environment
like with reward one if it gets a goal
and negative one if it hits a wall for
instance
right um but you can't Ma you can't set
the mask to be true there so what you
have to do is you return the current
mask and then you update it if you
update the mask and then return it then
your masking out the last observation
which you can't do basically your mask
has to Trail one step
down the goal just go back down while I
was talking
crap now I have to figure
out what I
did hold
live this was how it was before
right so you can't do it this
this live agent
mask of terminals equal to zero
First
Step mask
is live agent mask is one right so first
step it's all
one then you set the terms to
shapes so yeah this looks
correct oh look it does
work
right yeah it's just
fincky that's fine
mask live agent mask
perfect five po of
environments goal achieved um being
slightly over one is a bit
weird I'm sure that there's something
with that
quick we'll see if there's uh a little
masking that has to be done here or
something weird right
tensor this is your controlled agent
mask
so I can just
do I can just do this
I let's see if this prevents it from
going over
what
happened shape of mask is not I thought
I just I thought I just tried
this I thought I just made sure that
this
right let's see what the heck is wrong
with this
[Music]
uh what
works if this works then we uh I go take
a break I grab a shake I come back and
edit video and chill for a bit
looks like it's
good we'll track this this will be the
last one if this works we start the
sweep and we're
on well hard to say because it just
stopped but whatever I think we're
good we're
me make sure that it actually does
something
yeah I think that uh I am going to go
make myself a shake and have this
environment solve by the time I get back
how's that sound I'll be right back few
minutes now
okay man my camera is crazy framy isn't
it
like that's
weird we're going to have to do some
maintenance but not right now not right
now show me some good news
okay these are random hypers so it takes
a
here so we'll let this run for a
bit um I
will I will change the stream title
[Music]
and I will start editing on the video a
bit while this
runs and then once it's done some
experiments I will later tonight I will
post
uh I mean probably in just an hour or
whatever right I'll be able to post a
cool sweep
all right there we
go
so screen
filter [ __ ]
blur
close
cool we'll leave this in the
background and I
will open some stuff
I forget you can't
open you open Adobe premere from home or
is it screw up the
fonts we'll see should
work I should probably tell them I fixed
it
the
heck what was I doing
Doom I should probably get stats on Doom
right
oops so funny thing I
found um is that there's actually
a 160 by 120 resolution
Doom and if you do
that everything is fast
100K I think Doom's 100 K steps per
second environment folks
anything
better looks like
not it's very easy to hit 100K though it
seems like it doesn't go
over hello why does YouTube doesn't show
messages sometimes uh I don't know it's
I haven't done anything to YouTube I
think that they have like some weird
spam filters or something like if you
try to type too many things too fast and
I think that they try to Auto filter
links or something
dumb but if you don't see it on the chat
window right here then it doesn't show
stack looks like
not
folks we actually did get a little bit
of code in today which is nice we will
check on those experiment results in a
little bit later
I'm just doing some editing in the
meantime
do you think world
models like shown in this paper hold
on oh that's the original one yeah
that's David H's original one
right I have I have the blur on for this
screen
uh are worth it if very fast or not the
Focus right now so I have a a more
complex answer to that hold
on
so I think that it is
likely that world
models in some form to enable a policy
to quantify its
uncertainty about its predictions
could be
useful
however I what the thing that I don't
like about world models is attempting to
replace the simulator with like a
hallucinated version of the simulator in
my mind that seems like a hack in order
to try to like eek out more uh
essentially eek out extra frames out of
the
simulator when the simulator is really
slow um and a lot of the environments
that this has been used for and said
like Hey look it's way better with World
models than
without they've been set up completely
wrong like the dreamer paper on uh the
crafter Benchmark for instance like the
crafter end runs so incredibly slowly
it's like unrealistically slow like
nothing should ever be that slow um so
yeah then it makes sense to cheat out
extra frames some way but I think most
of the time you're probably going to
want World models to just
be there to help you quantify your
uncertainty not to replace interaction
with the simulator
itself that's going to be one of the
things that we look
at in puffer
um I'd say fairly early on once we start
doing
algorithms but you know when we actually
go to look at them we're going to be
able to do proper science on it we're
going to be able to have you know
comprehensive results over night uh with
how fast our simulators are and the
comparison is going to be for most
purposes wall clock not sample
efficiency which will shift things quite
a
bit so that's a long answer
that hack
graphic let me turn the AC hold on
I'd like to at least get um most of the
editing done on this project
today I got to get a better hardware
setup though for uh for stuff you can
see the camera is skipping now and
actually while I was recording I managed
it manage to have some camera lag very
seldom but I might have to re-record a
couple small things we'll see but it's
it's kind of silly
solved yeah okay yeah we solved I'll
show those in a little
bit I'll show those in a little
for things like self-driving
cars it's worth it because real life
data is limited and slow to collect I
assume
um yes
but wait until you hear my upcoming
video I have thoughts on that and like
yes it's a reasonable thing to care
about but I definitely don't think that
the majority of RL should be using World
models like that there are good reasons
behind that so wait as soon as this
video is edited and posted which will
probably be by Monday you'll see this is
a much higher produced piece of content
as well
the gist of it is
um it makes it really hard to make any
progress in research when you start
doing stuff with World models and slow
down all the experiments so much
holy hell what is it with PE like
researchers and trying to upload
gigantic gifts on the
it CU got like a Hollywood length
GI for
uhoh is it my is my CPU just like
burning what the [ __ ] is
happening I don't know why like this
stuff is so stuttery
yeah it's freaking burning my CPU what
the
oh okay I
see for whatever reason that's weird so
luckily my footage is not correct
corupted but for whatever reason I guess
like the GIF encoding is really gross
and whenever you play a whenever you
like put a gif into a video the preview
just gets all laggy and it just burns
your CPU trying to like overlay a gift
onto a
yeah that go it takes my CPU from 60
something Celsius with with all the
streaming and stuff um all the way up to
90 Celsius in like 5 Seconds that's
yay you got to give their lab credit
like they're one of the only groups here
who did not put a stupidly gigantic GIF
2.8 Megs is
reasonable let's go Hey Eugene I'm oh
wait I got something for you since
you're watching hold on you'll get to be
the first to see this uh I got something
for you let me undo the
blur GP puu Drive is
solved and uh how fast do you think this
was let's
see time relative time
process uh so far the best solve time is
48 seconds 48.5 seconds my bad for 9.99
94 score or goal achieved got to
validate these still
but uh this is just the start of carbs
it's like it can get
faster what yeah and we can make this
even faster I assume that's minutes no
no no no no no I told you like this is
what I'm doing with puffer stuff is fast
stuff gets easy because you just
automate
[Laughter]
everything we're going to be able to do
this with all of GPU drive as well like
all of your different scenes will be
like this the only thing that we need in
order to make that happen is this is
that one scene yeah this is okay but let
me explain this is one scene just
because I could only find one scene with
60 cars in it so I could densely pack
the data we make a couple little changes
to the way you're storing data and
assuming that GPU Drive actually does
scale linearly with the number of Agents
right it has good parallelization
internally uh we can do this with
anything so yeah now there's a
possibility I've messed stuff up but I
don't think so um I validated this
pretty extensively I got to load these
up and watch them play but yeah this is
the the scene that I linked in chat
before it does scale linearly 100% okay
so the issue right now and I discussed
this with Daphne earlier today is that
uh right now you have to pad your
environments to a fixed number of agents
and for whatever reason that ends up
making it really slow so if we can if we
can just get the data not padded out of
GPU drive itself so like a so
environment one has one agent
environment two has five then like that
goes into the first six elements right
then there's 10 that goes into the next
10 elements if we can do that then there
shouldn't be any overhead and we should
be able to make this go Zoom um yeah
internally they're padding free right so
if we can actually do that because I
don't know what happened with that
padding operation but for some reason
it's it's really slow cuz I undo that
padding operation in pu and it still
ends up being slow um yeah and then we
can play with a couple other things to
increase the data density cuz I think we
could make this go even faster like
there's no reason we can't have this
training double this speed
even tensor that we're passing out is
padded I
see yeah it's weird it's definitely
weird it does seem like it scaled with
the size of that tensor though not with
the number of Agents I could be doing
something weird there though uh but
let's take a look at the train
speed CU I have those as
metrics it's pretty variable as well so
you can see that most of these runs are
between 160 and this one's crazy this
one's at like 400k steps per second but
most of them are between like 160 and
260 steps per second on a 4090
you can see all of these different
experiments that have been run this is
just I launched this I don't know 30
minutes ago or
something and you can see all the
different
parameters so my hope which is what I
want to do for the whole field is I want
to have everything be this fast so that
like you have a new idea for an
experiment you have a new idea for an
algorithm or method you just implement
it you run comprehensive experiments in
like a couple of hours on one GPU and
you're set and while I have to do a lot
of work on other simulators to make them
fast enough like we just do a couple
little things on GPU drive and you'll be
able to have that at least for all the
stuff your lab wants to do with
it so yeah I got delayed for for a
couple weeks building this I got delayed
on like fixing up the stuff with the
binding for uh for puffer but now it
works now it's super fast and uh there
were just a couple dumb bugs I had to
fix and now we're good
there's a 32 second run that got 0.95 it
looks
like oh actually we're down to 44
seconds now I'm looking at it cuz
998 yeah it'll get faster
too it will get even faster because
carbs will find better hypers
I actually got a bug report that I'm not
even using carbs as well as I should be
so that should be even way
better let's see has it done any better
since I started
talking now 44 seconds is where it
stands it's the best one right
this is 512 copies of the uh the biggest
environment I could find which is 60
agents like 32,000 agents or
something I saw a cute house on Zillow
and had to pop
out no
worries no worries I just been I've just
been yapping about uh about metrics
44 seconds is the current best to solve
it we'll get faster than that
go I don't quite understand the Slowdown
internally each agent each Sim I'm
assume has a variable number of Agents
so we need to chitchat with yud Brennan
yep yeah that would be good
also
um I don't know if there's a way to
unload scenes you can't unload the
entire Madrona Sim right now that's a
bug in madona it crashes Cuda
um I definitely suggested doing uh
running it in sub processes still
doesn't work still crashes Cuda so I'm
caching the environments across
experiments now so we can't actually
ever like remake the environments with
uh for instance like one thing that I do
with my other sweeps right is like I
could set uh the N number of Worlds as a
hyper parameter or I could set like the
number of unique scenes as a hyper
parameter I don't think we can do that
now so there's going to have to be a
little bit of I mean it's a little bit
of lower lower level engineering right
for this
we need to make a fun internet ml people
gather.
toown I think I'm terminally online
enough as
is gather Town gives me Co
Vibes need a gather Town replacement
the funny thing about that to me is like
they made a gamified chat room when like
any multiplayer game is already
that rather.
clown it's
baited no it's not a real site you're
messing with me
do it find anything faster while I've
been shat
in
oh uh we're now down to 41 seconds for
uh for solving the N down to 41 seconds
seconds I think we should aim for 30 GPU
Drive in 30 seconds learn to drive in 30
seconds that sounds good to
me I think we can do
it yeah I can't see the other message
you can DM it to
me I guess i' check the vid I'm worried
you're somehow deleting all the cars
learning to drive in 30 seconds is a
great paper title I mean to be fair we
solve pong in 90 seconds and that thing
requires pixel OBS
right we can train uh we can check the
vid though I'll what I usually do is
once I finish training these right like
I'll pick one of the good sets of hyper
prams and I'll train that again from
scratch and then I'll download that
model right to make sure that it
works and usually you end up getting
like a little bit lucky with these cuz
you know there is runto run variants um
but it still ends up being pretty
close I think even if I were deleting
all the cars I think the logging should
still catch that we would we'd have to
see
I don't know I could be dumb but I
wasn't going to post this until I
checked the videos but you happen to
jump in and I'm pretty sure it's good
so we've done snake in 30 seconds and
stuff before but that one trains it a
million steps per
probably we could even do like an MMO in
that amount of time right if I do
where's the
GIF see a roll out this is running on
the other box so I can run the preview I
can show you what the environment looks
like but
um
on I can show you what the environment
looks like that we're using at the
machine you need a script to pull a
model from another box I do have a
script oh I'm on the wrong machine here
hold
on well the thing is I don't save I
don't save trained models while you do
when I do sweeps because if you save
models from sweeps I end up saving
hundreds of model files for every sweep
um so I save model files on individual
runs not sweeps so what I do is I run
the sweep I copy the hyper prams from
the best the best one and then I rerun
that okay fine I the thing I can't train
it on the local box because it takes too
much Cuda memory so I'd have to kill the
sweep in order to train on i' have to
like to kill the sweep in order to train
that it's not a three line change I run
out of Cuda
memory sounds like an excuse I can kill
the sweep if you want you want me to
kill the sweep I can do
that but then we're not going to get 30
seconds until I I'll have to rerun it
later tonight or something um
M Creator must be vac native I forgot I
made this new V mode for GPU Drive
murder and
rollouts okay so this is the en that
we're using this is without the train
policy here so it's the big en
right don't put me in this box it's fine
we can kill this weep for now and we'll
see I mean I'll rerun it or whatever I
can this is still good enough to post to
twter
right if it actually works so we'll do
okay don't make me Comp US yeah yeah
yeah
it's all right we got plenty more
yeah it's all right we got plenty more runs where this came from honestly this
runs where this came from honestly this
run like it'll get way better I just had
Kung report to me that I'm a dumbass and
I apparently uh did made some bugs when
I did the carb sweep integration so
apparently should actually be way better
than this um but you know you win some
you lose some
there let me see
time how's this one this one looks good
right some of these are a kind some of
these hyper prams end up being a little
bit unhinged that carb is finds uh this
m one doesn't matter sweep doesn't
matter train
prams yeah we do
65k
two your runs I checked but your run
should be good welcome
K Eugene and will this is kyung kyung
was a major force behind neuro 2.0 he's
done some awesome work on stuff and he
just added majoko bindings to puffer as
well entropy I noticed you didn't have
have an any entropy coefficient as well
in uh in training though the one that
this one found is pretty low so maybe
that's
gamma do
gamma we do learning
rate what's the learn rate on this thing
is
this sane or is this psychotic let's
see uh 4 e minus
3 Max grad Norm of 1.4 is pretty
unhinged and mini batch size of
32k is a little
interesting M's workers we need the VF
clip coefficient this is what I was
worried about but this one looks fine
and then the value function coefficient
okay this actually found sane hyper
parameters this time so I think it just
works
maybe if I didn't miss anything here oh
update EPO I forgot update
EPO where did update Depo
go one One update
EPO which is what it should be for all
fast environment it should always be
one M GPU
drive mode uh frame
back does GPU Drive have a doom like
third person oh was just um I was
actually just messing with doom uh it
turns out that the maintainers of Doom
forgot about a rendering option and you
can actually render Doom at 100,000 FPS
as well so uh Doom is probably going to
come back to RL with puffer in a big way
pretty
soon third person wait is there actually
a third person mode for rendering
Eugene maybe you could have a V without
the
children
[Laughter]
thank careful if you include that in the
paper they'll accuse you of being
damaging to the credit uh to the uh
credibility of nerps as a venue or
something
well obviously I got to see the third
person mode then that'll be
cool did this do anything oh yeah look
goal achieved 9973 so this
matches let's see if I messed up or
not I'm kind of suspicious too now
because these are really good results
but stranger things have happened
oh it's actually going to be faster as
well come to think of it isn't
it let's see so this
is where's
the okay yeah here's the score
right oh uh okay if this one is correct
it's actually under 30 seconds let's see
now I'm suspicious too because this is
like ridiculously fast I don't know
maybe the task is super easy is the task
just
task is easy it's drive straight for the
senior pick well then yeah it should be
easy to solve
right I think it's way faster than 30
seconds actually because I have it fixed
to 10 m steps train for this sweep um
and it looks like it solves it way
faster than
that so let's see
do I look stupid or
not mode
eval uh eval model
path dpu drive.
GPU
Drive
huh file not found
GPU I
what eval model
path what
folder hold
on the heck is wrong with this
I copy this
uhoh I think somebody might have
submitted me a silly
PR 592 let me see what it's doing to the
path here
oh yeah Eugene it's uh it's pretty
tricky to find the command to like curl
Dropbox I don't know if you you might
want to add that to the the read
function [ __ ] somebody broke my load
function hold on I'm trying to remember
what PRS I merged
it loads
here oh we've got something somebody
something's janky
here let me just retype this
eval model path
earth oh you know what it is damn it
it's the uh it's the the directory
change because GPU Drive messes with
your current working directory that's
what it
is that's the other thing that's really
obnoxious um that definitely could use
some
fixing uh what I will just do for now is
so that we can get this done is I will
do
this no it's not that it messes with it
it's that you have to mess with with the
directory in order to make it work cuz
it doesn't work
globally I have to mess with the
directory in order to make it work
because it doesn't it doesn't load
globally like you can't load GPU drive
from anywhere with the way it pip
installs I mean I will still say like
compared to other environments I mess
with like it was still fairly easy to
get working so it's not it's not like
bad or anything
it oh yeah see it works perfectly
doesn't it
pink car goes to
pink red car goes to
Red I don't know what's supposed to go
over to these ones oh yeah they start
right next to
it looks really good so now here's the
real kicker right now is when I tell you
how fast this traes and you're not going
to believe
this so GPU drive right here's the thing
normally I will sweep the uh the
duration of the experiment but there are
a couple Jank things that we're trying
to fix with carbs to make it a little
better at the moment so I turned that
off for a little bit so this one this
experiment trains at looks like over
250k steps per second
off goal achieved is capped in 3.5
million and if I change this axis from
steps to process
solved I don't even know how it
is oh yeah cuz this at the end here this
uh yeah yeah
okay but yeah less than 30 seconds so
28.5 seconds it says
and you guys also can have the sweep
link as
well we could try to make it
faster we should work on picking the
agent if this that's yeah it that's what
I try to say that's what I'm saying yeah
for
sure it already
is yeah but it'll be way cooler if like
I think that if you actually got it to
the point where uh you can load any
combination of scenes like this you
could have one policy solve all the
scenes simultaneously oh uh also I this
is not the same policy that you have by
default I made the policy a little
simpler um and it still works I'll show
you that so here let me give you the
link I
think let me see I think that this link
works one agent yeah so I'll show you
the the policy real
quick I think you'll like this I did add
an lstm to it just I don't even know if
you need one I just add lstms to
everything by default CU you can with
puffer uh 90 lines so I stole your
unpack function and then I simplified I
took out all the layer norms and stuff
so it's just uh linear reu linear for
ego partner and road map in beds a
project actor and a value function and
then i s which an lstm in the
middle so there's the whole
policy this
is also all available in puffer uh it's
set up in the docker for you as well so
it has puffer all set up like this with
GPU Drive in the uh the image does it
still have its permutation in variance
uh it should let me
see torch. cat yeah it does because we
do the Maxes here
right we avoided an lstm because you
know so this is how easy an lstm is in
puffer this is how easy the lstm is in
puffer uh what we do
is I'll show
you this is one of the things that uh we
do to try to make your life a little
easier so the hard thing about getting
an lstm right is there's this really
obnoxious transpose and if you mess it
up like everything breaks so what you do
is you just give your policy to the lstm
and then we do a whole bunch of asserts
here to make sure you're not screwing
anything else up and we do the
transposes and stuff for you so you do
encode all the transposes and stuff the
recurrent cell transposes and then
decode so I just put like everything
before lstm into end code everything
after into dcode and it works
got to figure out how to
replace all The Pedestrian viz with this
car
seat wait what did you just PR
will oh what how do I enable the first
person mode that would be cool to
see is that a thing or do I have to have
more stuff
installed you've got to see
this what AI slot did you submit now
will Will's like the master of AI
arv is the only person who is Run Okay
cool so I heard
um you were looking at blender stuff
um yeah that a cool like a cool renderer
would be really nice for this project
for sure
oh I will suggest in the future by the
way uh if you want to not have students
suffer as much with P game because P
game is just such a pain this library is
awesome for visuals like this library is
so so so much easier for graphics RB's
awesome and uh if you actually use their
low-level apis you can run it on the web
too which is kind of
cool oh look they literally added snake
web well this is the puffer snake so
here RL agents on the web uh like this
is me playing the yellow snake versus
all the RL agents and then I can take my
hands off the keyboard
right GPU drive on the web
the drona working on getting Vulcan
batched rendering in a
bit yeah
yeah I'm trying to think
like GPU Drive is probably way too
complicated to can you like it is C++ is
there any chance you can compile that
thing for web
assembly cuz if you can compile that to
web assembly it's really not that hard
to throw together a web client and then
you can have it on the
web I might even be willing to help you
out with
that the porting of the client to run on
web at the very
least not I'm not messing with compiling
giant Blobs of C++ to web assembly but
if you have that working and want help
porting the um the pame renderer to run
on web I can do that it's not that
bad this whole this like snake
environment
here I think I posted this on Twitter a
while ago
but that whole demo is 400 383 lines of
code
see you Eugene best of luck with the
multi
GPU of course I don't know if you need
multi GPU if it runs this fast
right see you
around no that's good though that's my
contribution for the
solid
hypers think we're set
here oh actually I guess I can
technically I didn't think of doing
this
oh yeah it's actually 20 seconds not 30
huh that's
we have a few YouTube folks if anybody
wants to support my work for free St
puffer helps me out helps me out a
bunch I am I'm going to use a restroom
I'm going to be right back and we're
going to finish up editing the video I
suppose uh considering we have solved
our RL problem for the day I'll be right
back
on guys we go back to video editing
sucks but we got to do it it's already
5:25 I've only got two hours maybe two
and a half get through
this oh yeah I was literally the way
that this started is Eugene dropped in
when I was literally about to add a GPU
Drive the GIF to
my
and I get to add now to the video that
puffer let solve some GPU Drive scenes
in less than 30
seconds if that doesn't get you to Star
the puffer then nothing
will the puffer must be fed a steady
diet of
stars in order to
subsist so if you have not St started
the puffer yet just
hungry then we got to go get madona hide
and seek
I got to tell Aaron this as well because
he was using
uh he was using puffer for madona hide
and seek
Madrona escape room oh I should list
this as another garbage environment well
not this one the original oh man the
original is probably the worst code I've
ever seen in RL holy
hell I mean it would almost be mean to
pick on him with how like uh the
original code was so so so
slow and it's so funny because it's like
not an environment conducive to GPU at
all it just needs to not be written in
naive python
also hanabe like it's a card game why
does a card game need to be on the GPU
right GPU dri is a good use case lar lar
now the title of the video is once again
accurate I hate editing
one oh wait I already have that one
don't
I can't
uh video editors are so
weird why can't I freaking I guess you
can't cross disolve a PNG with a in
video or
something the emergent tool use
environment is like actually funny cuz
it's they got a lot of flack for like
making it seem super interesting with
like jazzing up the
rendering but the thing is
like a lot of games do this as well
right like a lot of games are way
simpler than they look
and a lot of Industry Sims even
maybe many things are just simpler than
they look plain as
crap
de every so often you see a project
that's like completely and utterly crack
this thing's criminally
underrated guy made crafter and Jacks
he even made better gifts than the
original it's
funny I bet that the gift is even better
optimized and it's still pretty
big but uh not as ridiculous as the
original repository one for sure
project I don't know why I didn't get
way more recognition for
this the repo's only got like 800 and
some odd stars on it
I guess you just go to people don't do
enough promo on their work
tomorrow I'm going to chill and just
code some random C all day or
something going do something fun we'll
see
the video stuff this week has just been
mind
do I not have a gift of the snake
environment I should right
like the snake
environment we'll
[Music]
do make collab
2 a.m. good luck thank you for dropping
by
there's so much work so much work and
stuff to
why the hell is it that fast what the
heck is wrong with these
people they actually made it like one
state update
that's really gross you literally can't
rename stuff
got
to reopen the stupid premere Pro
1 million steps per second is 200,000
times real
time's
that is that right
200,000 five ticks per
second that's 55
apparently we're simulating 55 hours per
second per core is that right
wait that has to be right doesn't
it
because 1 million
right divide by five because they're
five ticks per second divide by 3600
because that's the seconds per hour yeah
it's the amount of freaking images that
need to be brought up on the freaking
X thought I already downloaded this
stupid thing
[Music]
going I am dying of video editing here
let me tell
you absolutely dying of video editing
good to see you around though that's
where I've been the hope is that I
finish this bloody thing either today or
Sunday so I can just be back to full Dev
next week because I'm sick of
this it's been just so much stuff
post this one is more technical the new
video I'll be posting soon is way more
accessible but if you want if you do
want a more technical video that has a
bunch of RL stuff in it that you can
kind of just toss in the
background I did make
one where is
it hasn't done very well
though has it got 381 views it's only
been a
chat I'm somewhat surprised though
because it has good engagement
YouTube is eating my messages I don't
know why it does that if I don't see it
right there then I it's like not showing
if you check the uh the Discord you can
see an environment that Nathan has been
making he's currently ripping a bunch of
copyrighted assets for it but uh it's a
pretty cool
Sim man he I didn't even see that he
did he did like line of sight checks and
like basic animations even holy hell
I actually don't know how he did the
losos
checks delegate someone to make Zoomer
friendly
edits you're probably
right I don't even know how well this is
going to do to be honest like I'm kind
of disappointed with how the previous
one did even though it was a lower
effort video but I watched it back and
it was still pretty darn
good it's more technical to be fair this
one will be way more
accessible and it'll have a away click
bait your
Zoomers according to the Zoomers being
27 makes me
Gramps feel you could similar
[Music]
Vibe
AEL hold on
AEL f how do you spell
[Music]
xera who
the vibe I'm getting is definitely not
me but I have to look at the edits
I know I'm not super picky there are
like a lot of I've seen so many
different art styles I like over the
years
it would almost be more useful than for
me to have some that like I haven't
liked I don't know you can 20 Questions
me on that if you want
there were a few things that I
commissioned in the
past I told you to ping
me I mean what where the hell are the
things I commissioned
uh these are really hard to see from
this graphic let me flip this filter off
for a
second your stuff now actually looks
really good I've warmed up to uh like I
didn't understand the aquatic theme when
I first saw it but now it actually I got
it into the game and it looks really
good I made a I did a few cool things so
I had this was like a long time ago off
of upwork for neural
MMO they're hard to see here but like
what I did is I got an artist to like 3D
model all of these so that they would
get like the flat shaded low poly vibe
to them um and then these are like icons
that are used in the game and stuff uh I
kind of did the Roomscape thing where
they just like made the icons out of it
3D
render and then you also have the 3D
things to play around with this whole
map thing I think is really cool as well
this was not originally what this looked
like at all you can kind of see what I
did like with my own shittier art I did
this one actually I guess we don't even
have the frames for the uh the older
ones huh we had like a flat shaded
version of this before but this one
looks really
good
um is there anything else it's
cool this is
crunchier oh this is just silly though
this is when I didn't know what the hell
I was doing and ripping off Minecraft
assets there's so much cool stuff um I'm
trying to think of games
I I basically like a lot of like the
simpler stuff as long as it doesn't
cross into the realm of being like
simple with the rounded cutesy edges
that makes it look like it's for
kids let me pull up the stuff from
Discord because these
are honestly you did some cool
stuff oh yeah I love the I love this
game but this is probably just Nostalgia
more than anything
yeah this game was so
good where's your thing I mean I showed
you the uh I showed you the gift didn't
I that I had
[Music]
somewhere didn't I show you with your
artwork in it at some
feel like you really want to lean into
an isometric yeah but not for this game
right because this game is it's a mooba
you can't really do an isometric
mooba the Moa like I realize so it
either has to be top down or it has to
be like you're looking at a fish tank
like those are the two things that you
could pull off that I could
see because most mobas are top down
I mean your assets actually look pretty
cool especially with the
um they match way better than I thought
that they would it's given me like the
old arcadey vibes with the shaders and
stuff nail the background
noise hope
Scope the puffer
tank did you
Scope I don't know what that
so the puffer is I mean I had the model
made and I had somebody
do if you're asking if it's like
one I actually don't know what you're
meaning I I I can't even
guess like there's a full 3D model of
the puffer fish that I can open in unity
or
machine it doesn't look like I have it
on this machine unfortunately but I
could show you there's like a full 3D
project there's like some file that has
like 200 versions of different pupper
fish lined up that I was comparing uh
and like the animations are all there
there's going to be so much cool Sim Dev
soon
I think a message got cut off cuz I just
see look at with nothing
I've also got to decide at some point if
I want to do um any form of audio for
anything the thing is it's almost
guaranteed that people will just always
run without audio and get annoyed if
there is any but for real games it makes
such a huge difference
internet
hiccup yeah I had one of those earlier
today in the middle of a meeting
good job
Xfinity good
job you're getting replaced with
starlink
eventually imagine not being able to
outdo freaking literal satellites when
you have wires that go straight to the
freaking box in
reliability literally putting a thing in
outer space is more reliable
I need my suborbital ping yeah I thought
it was going to be garbage but
apparently this they're low orbit enough
that it's not
terrible I
mean yeah probably wouldn't be great if
I were playing league but then again
when you start a company uh if you like
just hover the install button on League
of Legends the FBI just breaks your door
down and yells at you about like I don't
know shareholder value even when there
aren't any
shareholders that's just how it works I
don't make the
CCP since 10
centones yeah no but they want you to
play your games they want you to play
the games man it's the FBI telling you
hey look you got to be you got to be
helping out Uncle sham here you can't be
playing games you got like fancy degrees
and stuff you're supposed to be working
24/7
and I do miss my damn
games but like actually oh
man I games are just straight up more
addictive than like alcohol or or
anything else really it's like games are
just straight up
heroin that's the
problem can't download
them the the Sim that Nathan's making
the game it's built on I have like
probably 4,000 hours
being the influence
yep I mean he literally the thing is
like if you Google it you'll get their
latest Graphics which have gotten
increasingly weird over time and then
it's a French company so they've gotten
increasingly French over time
um which means everything has to be very
sexy but uh yeah the one that he did he
like posted a character image from like
the really old version of the
game wait
the
what oh I don't think I ever saw these
ad that's
funny but yeah the game is very very
French it's like
um all the male characters are like
normal and uh yeah like all the female
characters it's like your options are
[ __ ] Archer or [ __ ] Warrior or like
[ __ ] Gambler or what it's just like
it's very
silly and the thing is I started playing
it when I was like 10 so it didn't even
occur to me until somebody pointed it to
me pointed it out to me like many many
years
later it's like oh yeah
[Laughter]
[Music]
we can't do that we can't do that for
the
it's so funny because like now there's
there all these AI tools but none of
them are like remotely good at like none
of them do remotely close to what you
want
steerable trying to think of like other
things that have had a really cool
certainly not steerable LS are pretty
good regen something people don't bother
fixing minor
mistakes
yeah I mean like even a junior artist of
any type right can like iterate on
something same with a junior Dev right
being able to iterate on something is
very important
until the models get better not just not
just uh quite worth it yet
yeah yeah definitely I mean like coming
coming up with random stock footage or
stock images for Stuff where you really
don't care much what it looks like kind
of but even then it's kind of
difficult every so often it'll make
something you're just like well that's
cool but it's usually not the original
thing you wanted
Adobe selling AI gen stock
images for seven are you serious are
they that
dumb I'm not paying seven [ __ ]
dollars per stock image it [ __ ]
that's so
stupid I don't even really understand
like the stock images thing as a whole
it's like here are some like random
photos it it'll like it'll be like you
know yeah I took my good camera and I
took a picture of a coffee cup that'll
be like 20 bucks or whatever and it's
just like no [ __ ]
you all
right it's not even the 20 bucks it's
just like I don't like paying people who
are grifters
Adobe corporate licensing
it's like man why you guys got to be
weird it's like why you guys got to be
so weird the reason you got to be so
weird and try to justify freaking
charging so much bloody money for
everything is you guys got like giant
bloated bureaucracies that spend stupid
amounts of money on basic
things like if you didn't do that we
wouldn't be stuck here dummies for
military contractor horror stories oh
geez
yeah man actually I've got one of those
okay
so after I made neural MMO the dod put
out this million dooll Grant on on
neural MMO so literally on the thing I
built so you know my lab we applied for
it cuz like I went over to MIT after
that and then some like random dumbass
like
PMC like they I don't know what the hell
like they probably knew a guy or
whatever managed to get the contract
over my lab and they don't know any RL
they don't know anything they just got
like a bunch of dumb asses that are like
yeah well we don't need to know we don't
need to know any the tech in order to
use it to make like weapons and [ __ ]
it's like what the
hell it's like Lord give me the
confidence of a 20 some OD you know
military
more corruption than a hard drive in a
microwave
yeah they're playing silly games they're
playing silly games for
around one of the cool realizations that
I had though from coming from the tech
side was like a lot of the these people
who are like just grifters and making
money off of just like being able to
sell stuff and like being able to just
lie about stuff and and things like I
don't even have to lie about stuff and
like because I can build things it's so
much easier to just get their skill set
than it is for them to get mine so I can
just do my own stuff
right screw it i'm G to make a company
and I'm going to put a puffer fish on it
and it's going to be like the most legit
RL Tech out
you know there's this funny thing that I
hear a lot as
well the justification I hear is like oh
well if you can't sell anything it's not
worth anything so like you know the
sales must be what's worth all of it
it's like
no realize they only put the gifts for
puffer tank anims in the viz Dev what is
the viz Dev
thread what viz Dev thread is
there thread in general
oh man you can just put stuff in general
threads are so hard to find let me see
if I see
there's a thread icon in the top
left top
oh your profile picture has like similar
colors to another guy look bet you see
how like bet has like similar colors so
like at a glance I thought this was
someone
awesome we're going to have to do
something with the puffer at some point
I think we should also like whatever you
make I should like match maybe like I
try to like get an export of the puffer
that like matches or something and maybe
we can like maybe if you want to touch
up the frames or something but we should
have something so like could so like I
can put the puffer as like a minion or
whatever two bit style akin to Tiny
roges Silhouettes are really important
yeah the Silhouettes are really good on
these
why is this one
bigger oh I can't tell these don't
upscale properly so they don't look as
good as these ones but it's just cuz
they're upscaled wrong
right this star is cool is the star for
a specific buff or something or is this
just to like animate the Tower
with yeah I know it's I know it's
Discord okay I like the snail the
snail's really good
ooh I'm trying to figure out I actually
I really like the particle effect
animation how you have it here for some
reason I'm not getting that this is like
a speed buff I see like the little
Hermes wing on this but I'm not getting
the sense that it's a speed buff for
some
reason star was
done oh I see cuz it's going around yeah
yeah okay I see how that
is it's funny because I'm using stars as
the freaking puffer Towers now
right
shapes you also don't have to limit
yourself to two bits right
like even three you could do the boot
and the wing in one other shade and then
it would be more obvious what this
good not at
all what not what not what were you
replying to
specifically the snail shell is as well
for instance though it's pretty clear as
is I really like the way you do your
animations like more than anything I
love the animation so
much like I might like like be wondering
about colors and stuff on these but like
the animations are so
good like they're really Snappy I like
them like the way this snail animates is
really good the way the star goes around
like this is also really good and then I
even like this particle effected like
you really sell the animations
here account for
lag extra oh yeah yeah yeah you could do
something I mean I don't even know if
just for shading but like for some
things to make stuff clear I mean the
snail you can tell as a snail you could
make the snail shell a different color
if you wanted you could do the boot and
the wing a different color if you wanted
or you could just do like the particles
coming off the boot as a different color
uh I I'll leave that up to you but
regardless like I really like the
um the way that you do the animations is
really
yeah jeez These are
nice wow
the more I look at these the more I like
him as well they just like these just
feel
good you sent me some other ones before
didn't
you things I'm thinking about in terms
of okay yeah is this Geometry Dash or is
this I remember this game but yeah I
like this because it means less artwork
to
make okay crunchy yeah I see it without
the this is like a dog or something
which is a little awkward but yeah I
SpongeBob I don't know about the AI
generated
SpongeBob okay this is
cool not the CRT effect not doing CRT
effects but yeah the animation like the
graphics are cool
what the
heck turn down the acid just a little
bit and then
cool rock bottom
episode oh here were these okay whoa
whoa whoa whoa I haven't seen these
Psychonauts yeah they they do lots of
drugs in there I'm
sure okay I really like these actually
the more I look at the these I actually
really like these I think a couple of
the timings are a bit off
I like isn't this one here like too
fast like you can't even see the middle
frame and the middle frame is really
ridiculous because you can see it's like
the fish head
I think usually the attack animation is
like the most important thing because
that's the thing that you use a
lot walking animation is really good I
like the
idol this could be like a cast or
something extra frame of
exposure I think it could be like way
too
uh let me
think it seems like way too slow right
it's like the death animations on stuff
like this sometimes you actually they
slow the death animations down right so
you can literally see like du or
whatever
I don't know but regardless like you
have the you have them it's just a
matter of like how many times things are
repeated these are solid I like
them I have to do is nice Sprite sheet
system for you I'll put in a lot of good
work on the uh the code tomorrow so
hopefully it'll start being easier to
integrate stuff and then next week we'll
be able to really
start I think you're getting stuck here
right you're getting stuck against the
edge of the border right
here cuz the tip of the sword is
gone I think you're getting stuck
against like the edge of the
graphic I can't tell if it's in the
source or
not these are I just realized these are
going to look so much better as well
when I get the actual source files or
like I get like the actual upscaled
versions that's not the stupid Discord
version wait can I open this in the
browser and like does this give me
better
bad but I can tell it's going to be
something pretty
artwork BX yeah oh actually I can give
you a great example of the type of thing
that I hate though I don't think you
were going there in the first
place the way that these guys do all
their
logos they actually do a bunch of really
good work for the field
but
this Sprite a day makes the coding okay
very
true God it feels snoody yeah yeah yeah
right it's
like
ah it's like look I'm the least fun
person I know and that bores the hell
out of me I'm like the most boring
person I know and even I'm bored
[Music]
oh
another attack animation or two the re
hit
combo
o that does add code overhead for
sure I think initially you don't have to
go I think you don't have to go wide
with the animation set
initially I don't think you have to like
go too crazy with like the number of
different animations per character
initially because then if you want to
tweak the character at all it gets to be
way harder right
um okay I have something for you so you
have this stun animation that
stars do we want to
do I'll leave it up to you what to for
the
towers um I'll leave it up to you what
to do for the towers they literally just
need like a static and maybe a little
like effect on it or
whatever you saw what I was doing
originally right I was doing a thing
where like okay you replaced all the
hero Graphics that's fine but like the
creeps are still the
puffers you can replace those as well if
you want but I think that there should
be the puffer somewhere uh I because I
like the idea of having like the
the subliminal
advertising of like yeah the puffer
wants to take the towers cuz the puffers
are stars the puffer fish e stars star
the puffer what are you
doing so I don't
know some sort of Star Tower or
dark
currency you're taking out currency
though there's no currency at the
moment is the thing right
I don't know I kind of realized
something that like eventually I
probably don't have to care about this
now but actually here I don't have to
pull it up on the screen because you
have it on the puffer fish up uh up
there like eventually I'm going to get
trouble for doing the thing I'm going to
get in trouble for doing the thing where
like I add more logos to feed the puffer
or
whatever So eventually like somebody's
going to get mad and I'll say screw it
and I'll just have the puffer inhale a
bunch of stars or something instead but
yeah star the like I I think I'm going
to make it a thing like yeah the puffer
eat Stars feed the puffer more stars
what are you
I'm not very I'm not much helped with
the Aesthetics as the problem because as
you can maybe see from the various
things that I've done actually let me
show you the the super cringe like where
the hell are the super early versions of
stuff they're probably in the Discord
like I'm pretty sure my sense of
Aesthetics just stopped developing at
age 14 and edgy as [ __ ] so like the
original name from neural MMO was
project godsword and it had like a bunch
of like RuneScape reminiscent assets and
like you know a bunch of like really
crunchy pixel stuff and like the font
was like Dragon slapper ttf and all that
stuff right
other end of
God I mean I've been doing that pretty
much it's like powerlifting marathons
and C
code cringe
Kino I don't know
I mean I literally have a freaking gold
foil map of uh of Gillan or the
RuneScape continent behind my ring
light is pretty
cringe but
hey all my work inspiration comes from
like old
games man
I miss like all the
cool game AI stuff that happened in like
2019 the open ai5 stuff was the
coolest I still remember when I was like
there late one evening developing neural
MMO and like they were doing some early
like employee tests or whatever where
they were trying to play the bot to see
like how good it was and uh Alec Radford
who is the GPT guy I think he was just
one of the best DOTA players like that
they had as an employee so he would like
lead and shot call the uh the matches
versus the bot so I'd be there
developing neurl MMO and I'd hear like
across the office you know cuz open
Office like a dive CM for an extra kill
it's like okay
[Laughter]
wish I could have gotten into DOTA
League lasting pissed me off resetting
progress yeah that's why I played
MMOs that's why I played the
MMOs right
also just like mechanically it's like
you can't keep up with the freaking kids
that are no life in those games
what's your
temperature on a coral or an En me to oh
my gosh I don't know why I didn't think
of that that's an awesome
idea like a
reef so the one thing that you have to
decide
on uh is you need to figure out
the
perspective you could just make it like
a typical like an older game where like
the perspective doesn't make any sense
and it's
like cuz right now like you're looking
at the screen and like it's the like you
can see straight on so it's like a side
view but then the background isn't a
side view so
like like the towers would be like on
the bottom of the tank or something then
it wouldn't make sense so yeah I think
that you can just like put like a coral
Tower type thing that'd be awesome like
a
reef you only need to make uh
I think initially you only need to make
one of one of them and then just make it
so that like we can retint like if
there's like let's say that there's like
a base and then there like some coral
pieces on top or something like make it
so that we can retint to swap the side
from like dire to
radiant would that make sense that way
you only have to make one graphic like
you know cuz they're two different sides
so we can just like retint like whatever
the accent is
like to like from like uh cyan to red or
whatever so that we have like the
radiant and the dire
Side Oh by saying by what you're saying
like that you never got into them but
you know about like last hitting and
reset like last hits and stuff I assume
that you actually like know something
about the games then then you can Pro if
you do you can probably appreciate like
how crazy complicated
it is to be able to solve something like
DOTA with reinforcement learning and how
powerful the tech is like what that says
about the tech
right like I don't think if you explain
DOTA to most adults yeah very Jame game
genre sound right yeah I would like if
you explain DOTA to most adults I don't
think that they would believe you that
like typical people have a hobby that is
that insanely complicated
right like just think about the stuff in
that game like how the hell does anybody
play that right is what you would
get no it's [ __ ] nuts how many Heroes
League with all the builds
yeah
they keep making it more and more
yeah they keep making it more and more complicated as well which is the crazy
complicated as well which is the crazy
thing by adding more and more so it just
gets harder and harder to get into that
game
I actually pitched Riot on like some RL
stuff with puffer a while ago they
didn't go for it I have a good pitch but
yeah let just let me appreciate fiddles
stick's character design and everything
else is right
out I think character design wise my
favorite has got to be Tren deir he's
like a jacked Barbarian who's literally
too angry to die
right too angry to die is a top 10
Niche you're pretty good
it's pretty freaking
funny it's pretty
funny I actually think I like a lot of
the DOTA character designs better though
than the league
ones well some of the ones are pretty
good I remember I liked playing uh L in
League cuz he's just like her voice
lines are like all just obnoxiously
optimistic
design they have a lot of classic ones
like Lena and CM and then like V with
the giant ass sword and
like they a lot of good ones
Nuclear
Throne let me look at that in a
Throne
woh what's this
uh so the way that the artwork is done
is fine but the characters are way too
zany in the in the uh the character like
designs are like way too zany for me oh
the game looks completely
yeah it's like top down but not really I
see what you mean yeah
pretty much just uh hanging out chatting
here for the next I don't know
hourish while I finish
editing and that's pretty much the plan
unresponsive because I'm thumbnailing
Towers hey that's a good use of
time I'm just editing videos and trying
to figure out how much stuff to cut in
between for promos and all that stuff
thumbnailing I know what it means to be
thumbnailing a tower
I'm actually getting to
be okay enough with the video
the hardest
part is making the tower not look like a
bucket of freaking french
oh you're using like I see you're using
like a weird image probably let me
think you could just do like a basic
Tower shape that sort of lower Fidelity
and then have like some Coral sticking
out of it I don't
know yeah if you do like the like the
tubular looking ones it's going to look
like fries of course for
sand castles oh yeah that would work too
they'd be underwater but yeah that's
fine oh actually there is totally
a let me link you a Wiki page that has
some silly things in
it there's literally a dopest dungeon
that's set in the freaking sand
castle and has like a bunch of corals
and
stuff oh I forgot to tell you okay this
is not going to work for this cuz it's
like mixed inspiration but I can show
you like one of my favorite designed
places in a
here there's not enough artwork in
it oh yeah there's a gallery at the
bottom that you can see
that is a sick map yeah man there are
like a couple games I've
played here I'll also link you the
chambers old school RuneScape has this
really sweet raid that's set in this
like Crystal
Cave but yeah like basically all of that
game looks like that it's pretty cool
right for like a freaking super old
Flash
game I'm trying to think of like some of
the other ones that look really cool in
that game
game what are like some iconic
ones Chambers is
Eric yeah that's that's uh I just
thought of it as like another thing that
I thought looked cool I don't think it
works for this because it's like
crystals it's not like
aquatic what other maps are there I'm
trying to think of like the dopest
Maps if there's anything cool
there's actually a lot of them now that
I think of it I don't even know which
one to
pick I know I won't force it right like
I just thought of that one because like
oh yeah sand castle oh yeah there's
totally a sand castle right here's your
sand
I know a lot of like the artwork in MMOs
just ends up being really cool because
like they'll design one piece of content
in like a year because they know that
people are going to do it a thousand
times
so they'll be like shoot we better make
sure the artwork at least looks good if
we're going to literally design one
thing all year
you're free to like look around those
wikis MMO content pipeline is so slow
so because I can tell you what happens
when it's not slow is you [ __ ] up the
entire economy of the
game like the balance
around the balance around like what
comes out of the content and
like yeah the balance of what comes out
of it really important and like you want
it to be like really rewarding on
release
um but then the thing like if it's not
rewarding enough on release it's lame
and then like it's lame to have to buff
it after it's released but if it's too
good on release then you just destroy
the entire economy of the whole
game like RuneScape did this they
released like one relatively boring boss
and I think it still might be the best
money in the entire game because it like
it drops the best armor and like nobody
wants to do it but like it's like twice
as much money as anything else in the
game because everybody needs a set of it
oops we probably should have made it
have like one piece of that armor and
have it be more common and have spread
the other ones out across the rest of
the game but oops it's too late now and
now we're screwed right it's like that
type of a thing
or they've done the opposite as well
where it's like oops we released this
really cool boss that everybody likes
but we made the rewards not good enough
and uh now nobody's ever going to do
it botting make it a core
mechanic I mean the endgame content
though like you're not botting the
endgame content there are gold Farmers a
few of them that can do it but like yeah
I will tell you that the gold farming
actually completely it will actually
completely destroy a game is the problem
like okay cool they're cheap resources
right but like they're all they're not
just farming the resources they're also
farming bosses and stuff and they'll
drop the prices of the things that come
from the bosses so much that it's
literally never worth it for anybody to
do them ever
I should order
dinner real
quick get some food and then I will
continue working on this until food gets
here uh we got some decent progress I'd
say today
I mean to be fair I didn't get as much
done on the video as I wanted to but I
literally solved an RL environment today
so
huge what's huge oh yeah yeah
yeah I
uh I had a
conversation with uh one of the
researchers on GPU drive it was very
nice and uh very smart good researcher
right and uh she said well you know it's
already pretty fast you know we can
already run these experiments in like in
like a couple of hours said okay let me
work on that and uh like 4 hours later I
sent back like okay I have the thing
training uh it takes 28
seconds yeah it takes 28 seconds now and
uh I had the the pi was the pi for that
who I know right joined the stream and I
said hey I got something to show you let
me show you the uh the training graphs
for this you know these experiments I've
been running and he thought that the
axis was in minutes and I said no the
axis is in
seconds no no no the axis is in seconds
what do you take me
[Laughter]
for so that's fun hopefully that
environment will be like Ultra widely
used now just cuz like it's such a good
environment just needed like a little
bit more on the perf side
am I stupid for wanting to order from
Panera Bread of all freaking
places I used to remember the food
quality being so much
nah man I don't need the
calories I've been okay I'm like I'm
pretty much just maintaining at the
moment it's going to take me another
couple weeks to get back to the really
heavy lifts I mean I did the what's this
three weeks weeks I think now three
weeks after the
how do we Implement a how do we
Implement a paper as a begin give me one
second I'm trying to find myself some
food to order and I will answer some
questions
just a
second I am being dumb and indecisive at
the moment
let's get a
pasta some freaking vegetables though
mood let me figure this out I I have
some cool paper tips
but I don't know my brain just stops
working about food at some point it's
just like what how do I
eat I guess the only thing I have that I
know works is
add I don't know why I took that long
for
so it depends if you're talking about an
ml paper or an RL paper um
there's going to be a lot of difference
there
so a lot of ml papers tend to be like
architecture heavy and
such and the main difficulty is like
getting the architecture to be just
right a lot of RL
papers tend to be the train Loop is a
lot harder to implement um because you
generally have separate train phases you
maybe have a replay but maybe you have
to do generalized Advantage estimation
there tends to be a lot like multiple
data State data collection phases uh and
the data comes from the simulator as
well so you have to work with
that
uh so I mean I did this when I
started I would suggest picking
something that doesn't take a ton of
compute to
train because if you're going to pick
something that you don't have the
resources to do properly you'll
basically have zero way of checking
whether your implementation is correct
or
not
um
yeah that's what I would generally
suggest is that's probably the single
most important thing
honestly I did when I oh also pick a
paper that actually makes sense to read
like some papers are just ridiculously
written with way too much math and not
enough details to actually Implement
properly
I think when I started I did like encode
decode
lstms uh for language modeling and I did
like uh variational Auto
encoders uh yeah I think those were the
two big ones and then basically once
you've implemented a few papers it's
like congratulations now it's time to do
your own
research I'm trying to think if it's
still worth trying to implement papers
these days
I honestly don't know if it's worth
trying to implement papers these
days I think it's worth trying to
implement basic methods but trying to
implement full papers
like paper and reinforcement
learning you should imp like you should
Implement some for form of reinforcement
learning train Loop uh when you star in
reinforcement learning if you're trying
to take it
seriously like something as simple as
dqn or like vanilla policy gradients or
whatever is
fine um there are really good
implementations that you can refer to
nowadays these didn't used to exist but
clean RL has some like really good and
simple reference
implementations I would generally
suggest doing like vanilla policy
gradients
honestly do like vanilla policy
gradients on cart Pole or something
basic like
that that'll be like 200 lines of code
there are all sorts of good resources on
it it'll let you understand the anatomy
of the train
Loop but the thing is you're not going
to get like a super cool result out of
it right you're just going to get
something
basic now if you're looking to get more
into like The Cutting Edge of RL but
you're not looking to get into the side
where you need tons and tons of
algorithmic knowledge I we have tons of
cool stuff around in puffer lib like I
have new contributors that I've been
showing how to write million step per
second like ultra high performance
environments so we have some people that
are like implementing the Atari games
from scratch but like the Atari games
now Run a thousand times faster so we
can train Ultra well and then they're
like using puffer to run run their
experiments and then they're running
like their own hyper parameter sweeps
and stuff so we have that type of a
thing going on but if you really want to
like know the algorithm side vanilla
policy gradients or dqn from scratch
would be the general
suggestion stuff gets harder after that
like good po implementations even like
poo is one of the simpler algorithms but
honestly really good RL implementations
can take months
like if I had to implement Po from
scratch right now even having done that
multiple times I it would take me a long
time to do
well cuz things are just tricky man it's
just
I will also say when I started an
ml uh and I tried to do a lot of stuff
from scratch there was much pain in
suffering like I spent many thousands of
hours from age like 16
to
20 pretty much age 16 to 20 was all just
like stum in around trying to do [ __ ]
and everything being really hard and
confusing and everything taking 20 times
longer than it should
um but hey I mean the Crux of that was
like when I finally sort of figured some
stuff out and I managed to get soda on
like a really simple language modeling
task uh and I was able like I published
My First Single author paper off of that
and I mean from that I got you know my
open AI internship and you know then I
got into my PhD and you know all sorts
of things from
there it's a little tough cuz the things
that I did back then would no longer be
considered
impressive and like it's actually kind
of fair because it's not like oh yeah
the people just got way smarter that's
why everybody's doing better stuff now
it's uh that the tools got better so
like the stuff that we did back then was
really hard to do CU we didn't even have
half different learn decent learning
libraries but nowadays like you have
that stuff so the bar goes up a
sounds like a grandpa talking about 8
megabyte hdds they could sit on a table
Yeah but Gramp's got
hands thumbnails ooh hold
on let me fix one thing
what
ooh let me
un how do you work this fast the [ __ ]
you made a lot of different Towers
didn't
you
holy did you make six of them for a
particular
reason I can see
Silhouettes draw a long
technically I think I can technically
make these like tier one tier two tier
three tier four tier five
I'd have to modify a little bit of how
the game represents the
towers part of the thumbnailing I'd
never heard the word thumbnailing
process
okay does doing Alpha Zero from sort of
scratch
help that seems [ __ ] hard I'd have to
look at the details of that paper it's
been so long does that seem like
something reasonable that you can
do disposable let me
see so I think that this one right here
we could scale this one up like 4X and
use this as the uh the ancient or
whatever I think my favorites are this
one this one and this
one I'm trying to think what I want to
use each of them
I mean you've drawn some stuff that like
probably lends itself to some really
cool like three frame
top number
five is your personal Peck
good yeah this one's nice and simple
this one works in your two uh two bit
art style very well well maybe it does I
think it I think it would also look
better with three colors um like the
base the outline and then like the
top I think that the one on the left
here this one could be really cool for
the ancient cuz you know what this
reminds me of this like this looks like
this could be like a vent you know like
a like a vent like the underwater vent
or whatever and like this like stuff
could be like you know whatever Vapors
or whatever floating up from like an
underwater
vent that would be like a really cool
like Nexus you know like the objective
of the game
thing yeah I think I think if you want
to just
do two two of them it would be these
two a
pearl
e you know what I would use a pearl
for I don't
know star Pearl if I were to like Bounty
runes or something like that to the game
which I don't have yet so you don't have
to make it at the moment but like you
could totally make the Bounty runes be
like a clam or like an oyster where like
when the bounty Rune isn't there the
oyster is closed and when the bounty
Rune is there it's like open with like a
pearl in
looking
oops Let's
uh sneak
preview I'll clean up five and hold on
to one sounds good
food technically I have shown portions
of this on stream but then I got way
more serious about it I'm like okay
we're going to like hide this so that
it'll be
there we go food's on the
way so
10 15
minutes so how long I have to finish up
the initial edits on this
video I think I'm good I basically just
have a couple
transitions to
welcome usually we're writing code here
I'm not writing code because I'm
finishing this ridiculously labor
intensive video in the background that's
all
blurry um I'm hoping that this will be
up next week and then I'll be able to be
doing cool code on stream all week but
for now I'm hanging around chatting
about reinforcement learning and
finishing up edits
a models actually make good stock
footage I don't know if I should start
learning RL by reading rs's RL book and
implementing it or if I should start
with Pokemon
RL can you give me some advice on how I
should start learning reinforcement
learning uh so I it depends on whether
you have experience in any other areas
of AI like do you have experience with
any other areas of
ml or is this like brand new to RL well
it's like I should actually start with
like do you have experience in software
engineering do you have experience in
like any math do you have experience in
AI as a whole in like Visionary language
like what are we starting with
I have experience with NLP okay great so
that's where I was when I started as
well I generally suggest people read
some papers not a ton like between five
and 10 papers in RL to get a sense of
things these would be like
dqn uh
po oh how many do I pick if I had did
pick
five okay we'll be super biased and I'll
include mine as one of them uh
dqn
po uh DOTA open ai5 Alpha
star and the puffer paper because I'll
be biased on my own
there that will give you a pretty decent
grounding
of in like at least some of RL obviously
you'll want to read some more than some
more along the way but that will give
you some
grounding then on the Practical side I
would look at
you should understand like vanilla
policy gradients and like what a q
function
is and outside of that I would suggest
looking at clean RL and getting familiar
with some of those
implementations and uh from there you
can probably start looking at some of
the stuff in poer lib because like we
really aren't that algorithm
heavy um most of the stuff that's in
poer that lets you do cool work is just
like we've done engineering to make
things very very simple and very very
fast so it's like the same po
implementation basically as clean rl's
but ours is like 100 times faster
thank you yeah no worries and by the way
we've got
like we have new people who have like
contributed tons to the Pokemon project
um that started out with less experience
than you and just like worked a bunch on
stuff we have other other people that
are in a similar spot to you uh even
like less on the AI side that are now
making like million step per second
ultra high per Sims and running hyper
pram sweeps and experiments on
puffer so we do a lot of cool Community
stuff if you're interested in getting
involved with the some of the things on
puffer that's up to you
can't I put the stupid
dissolve on
this I hate when like the UI just
doesn't let you do anything and there's
no indication as to why you can't do a
thing that seems like you should be able
to
was wondering will be an interesting
project to reimplement Pokemon showdown
in rayb for puffer lib
um the rendering is always the easy
part the rendering is not that bad you
need the logic needs to be fast is the
main thing
so obnoxious I can't just add a freaking
cross disolve here
right okay that's a good initial
edit we
have just over 25 minutes of footage for
the video
um food's almost here so this is where
I'm going to call it for today folks let
me close this and I can undo the blur
and all the other stuff
so thanks for dropping by everyone um
Tower in 30 seconds okay I'll wait for
that this article this puffer Hardware
article was uh from 325 Stars just like
two three months ago not
even so uh if you want to support the
project for
free and have Ultra fast reinforcement
learning you can contribute to this as
well by the way and we do cool stuff on
stream with
contributors um but yeah hey we hit 875
today which is awesome I'll put the link
in the
chat you can start the project to help
us
out you can also join the Discord we've
got lots of people developing really
cool simulators which is the main push
for puffer going forward here this video
is going to be done over the weekend and
out probably
Monday uh and after that it'll be back
to all the cool Dev so that'll be fun
let's take a look at this artwork
so will be
awesome
[Music]
whoa hold
on now with
whoa it's going to need some color for
like the coral on the top or something
right cuz it's not going to stand out
from the dark background but yeah this
shade is awesome holy
I think wait to upgrade the characters
until
um until we see if we finalize stuff
because I know it's like way harder to
edit once you start shading and stuff
but yeah holy
hell holy hell this is
nice wait is this supposed to be
something is this supposed to be like a
face or something here or is this just
like just so happens to be I can't tell
this is going to be so cool to have
these as
awesome I I think that if you want to do
a couple little things today like figure
out like what portion I think like the
coral bit at the top would probably get
the tint on it something's going to have
to be can and something's going to have
to be red to represent the two different
teams so like you know maybe this piece
is red for the dire team and like Canan
for the radiant team or whatever um I
don't know maybe some like some sort of
little static animation for this thing
technically it could get an attack
animation where like it blinks or
something when it attacks or something
like that it just does an AOE basically
it does like a massive like it like hits
something it hits something in a big
range around it so I could either do
some sort of projectile or if that's too
hard we could just like blink it I don't
background so this is what I mean though
like you you can't really see it on the
black background and like we have a
pretty dark background
for H
it and you can pretty much keep doing
whatever like you make cool stuff I use
it
you could also take a look at the
uh these anims I shant give you slop
yeah these are awesome I really like
your
animations especially like
you know what this like the winged boot
reminds me
of these literally exist in old school
they got like the wings on
them remind me of
these all right I've got to go get my
food I'm hungry uh I'm going to be
deving a bunch of SE probably off stream
tomorrow trying to clean some stuff up
and then we'll be back Monday with
proper Dev uh but yeah we've done quite
a bit of cool
stuff so thanks everyone and uh I will
see you later bye